# NYC-Fire-Department-Data-Analysis
Final Project for DSC 520 - Statistics for Data Science. 

A. Introduction.
New York City is by far one of the most populous cities in the United States, and therefore it is a place with a higher chance of exercising a fire related event or emergency related event. Like many other governmental agencies, the NYC Fire Department faces its own unique set of operational and financial challenges, and most importantly saving lives. My mission with this project is to gain a better insight on the operations of the NYC Fire/EMS department by analyzing its data from incident reports, which includes variables such as Incident type, zipcode, incident duration, borough, and so fourth. This analysis will be beneficial to the NYC Fire Department so that better resources can be allocated to improve the Fire Department’s response to incidents.

B. The problem statement I addressed.
My problem statement that I addressed with this project was, is there a specific kind of incident that occurs more frequently in a given area? Is there an area that has the most incidents? Is there a distribution between month and incident duration? Is there a distribution among incident type and incident duration? Is there a distribution among zipcode and incident duration.

C. How I addressed this problem statement.
My method of addessing this problem statement started with by first cleaning up my dataset. I decided to use was Incidents Responded to by Fire Companies from the NYC open data portal. This Dataset is composed of 2.52 million rows, and 24 columns. The first step for me was to see if there any missing cases in my dataset. After I figured out that there is missing data in my dataset, I needed to see how many missing instances I had. I saw that there were 7589112 instances that were missing. Since I saw there were some missing data, I decided to figure out which columns I wanted to use from the 24 columns. I then picked 6 columns that seemed relevant to my analysis. I then constructed a new data fram with the selected columns. At this point I checked how many instances I now had that were missing, which showed to be 149 cases. I narrowed down to see which columns that these N/A was located, and saw that all the missing cases were in the Total incident duration. I then omitted the missing cases from my dataset.At the begining of the process,I had 24 variables, then I narrowed down to 9 variables by spliting date time variable, and thus ending 2518609 rows/observations. To further narrow down the data to address my probelm statement, I focused on the Brooklyn Borough due to it having the highest number of incdients from my preliminary data exploration.

